---
layout: index
sidebar_menu:
    '#multiple-sized-artboards': Multiple artboards
    '#responsiveness': Responsiveness
    '#custom-breakpoints': Custom breakpoints
    '#rotated-and-sheared-html-labels': Rotated labels
    '#svg-artboards': SVG artboards
    '#custom-css': Custom CSS
    /: Return
---

# Examples

We included some examples to demonstrate the effects of different settings in ai2html. You can download all the [Illustrator files from Github](https://github.com/newsdev/ai2html/tree/gh-pages/_ai). 

For more, check out [examples for how we’ve used ai2html](https://delicious.com/archietse/ai2html,nyt) at The New York Times and [examples of how others have used it](https://delicious.com/archietse/ai2html,others).

## Multiple sized artboards

If you create multiple artboards, **ai2html** will export them separately (either in one or multiple files). The idea is that they can be toggled on and off based on the size of the outer container. All you have to do is add our little [resizer script](https://github.com/newsdev/ai2html/blob/gh-pages/_includes/resizer-script.html) to your website.

In the example below, 4 artboards are being used. Resize the browser window to see how the different versions are being shown based on the outer width.

{% include artboards.html %}

## Responsiveness

You might have noticed the "jumps" between the different versions in the example above. If you set `responsiveness` to `dynamic` in the settings block, the artboards will be stretched so they always fill 100% of the container:

{% include dynamic.html %}

The default behaviour for the dynamic scaling shown above is to use the widths of the artboards as breakpoints. If you have a small and large artboard, the small one is being scaled up until the "following" size fits into the container.

## Custom breakpoints

You can define custom breakpoints for each artboard by adding `:MIN_WIDTH` to the artboard name. In the example below, the "medium" artboard is renamed to `medium:420` to tell **ai2html** that this artboard is safe to be scaled down to container widths of 420px.

{% include breakpoints.html %}


## Rotated and sheared HTML labels

By default, **ai2html** will now output rotated and sheared labels as HTML while preserving the original transformation using CSS transform matrices. This works reasonable well for rotated and sheared text.

{% include rotated.html %}

If you don't want the rotated labels to be rendered as HTML, you can restore the old behaviour by adding `render_rotated_skewed_text_as: image` to your settings block. The text will be added to the base artboard image.

{% include rotated-image.html %}

## SVG artboards

Instead of PNG and JPG, **ai2html** can use SVG for artboard images, too. This makes most sense when you don't have raster layers in your Illustrator file. To activate, simply change the settings block to `image_format:svg`.

{% include svg.html %}

[Here's the SVG artboard](images/svg-720.svg) in case you want to check it out.

Note that the SVG output generated by Illustrator will still include the markup of all elements that were hidden by ai2html before the export. To fix this we wrote a little [Node.js script](https://gist.github.com/gka/c97465e7a25d943e1191#file-clean-ai2html-svg-artboard-js) that removes these hidden elements.

## Custom CSS

Use the `ai2html-css` text field to add custom CSS styles to the HTML text labels. You can target different labels by using the name of the parent layer in the CSS selector.

{% include custom-css.html %}

{% include resizer-script.html %}

